- **Scope** is defined as the set of rules that governs how the **JS engine** can look up a variable by it's identifier name.
- There are two important modals on how **SCOPE** works.
    - **Lexical scope**: This is by far is the most commonly used by wast majority of programming languages. Lexical scope is the scope which is defined at lexical time. In other words lexical scope is a scope which is based on where variables and block of scope are written by you while coding.
        ```
        function foo(a){
            var b = a * 2;
            function bar(c){
                console.log(a, b, c);
            }
            bar(10);
        }
        foo(3);
        ```
        - In above example there are three scopes
            1. Global scope having foo function
            2. foo function scope having a, b and bar
            3. bar function scope having c. (not sure about b and c).

    - **Dynamic scope** // Explanation about this may be comming further.
- **Look Ups** the structure and placment of these scope bubbles fully explains to the engine all the places it needs to look to find an identifier. *Scope **look-up stops** once it finds the first match.* The same identifier name can be specified at multiple layers of nested scope which is called **"shadowing"**(the inner most indentifier shadows the outer indentifier).
    - No matter what look-up will start from the innermost scope being executed at time, and works it's way outword/upward until the first match, and then stops.
- **Cheating Lexical**, means you are going to disrupt the flow of lexical analysis. The flow of lexical scope is defined by the author while writing the program. There are two mechanisms **(eval and with)** through which you can disrupt the flow of lexical. ***Cheating lexical scope leads poorer performance***
    - eval
        ```
        function foo(str, a) {
        eval( str ); // cheating! 
        console.log( a, b );
        }
        varb=2;
        foo( "var b = 3;", 1 ); // 1, 3
        ```
        - setTimeOut, setInterval will also capable of creating same effect as that of eval
    - with ***Will disccus later in greater details***